## My sample essay

### Question:

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
The parents should let children make mistake and let them learn from their own mistakes.

### Essay:

It is hardly an exaggeration to mention that since the dawn of human creation, most families struggle to bring up well-behaved children aligned to specific terms. Seeking success in this process, almost everyone draws a plan and an ideology, especially about how children should be organized to deal with their mistakes. Although many parents tend to exercise over-controlling behaviors toward their children, I believe letting children learn from their own mistakes is more fruitful, as it is more lasting and effective, but with certain conditions which will be discussed in the following.

Undoubtedly, each family has its own values and tries to align its children's demeanor with a specific code of behavior. Besides, irrelevant to their types, children's attitudes should fall into an acceptable behavior pattern even when their parents are not in charge. As a requirement to achieve this goal, children's conduct should acquire long-term stability to be more reliable. Attaining this level of trustability is possible only when the children have been given the chance of being trusted in their early childhood. To put it in other words, being liberal to make choices provides them the opportunity of modifying their behavior by observing particular experiences and their corresponding outcomes. Not only does this process assures that juveniles practice a growth mindset and to be welcoming of new situations, but they will also choose their role models more wisely, and follow in their footsteps. As a consequence, their characteristics become more steady and resilient to cope with odd occasions, and this process leads the students to be more self-confident because they have accepted who they are and know what their strengths and weaknesses are. 

Furthermore, one has to draw a sharp distinction between respecting the children's autonomy and pandering to their every whim. Although it is crystal clear that domineering, stern parents will shake their children's independence, being over-indulgent with the kids will pose the risk of being prone to radical changes to their demeanors. Children, without practical guidance, may absorb undesirable, disruptive, or even anti-social behaviors; therein lies the chance of become disaffected juveniles. To circumvent this consequence,  parents can draw a follow-through manner in which they can aid their children to meet their responsibilities as well as foster their growth. It is essential that parents strive to promote a cooperative spirit and friendly attitude among their children while respecting their will of being independent. In other words, parental instructions can shed some light on the children's major setbacks whereby they can learn how to think strategically in times of trouble. So, should parents desire more standalone, reliable children, they have but to provide their kids with adequate supervision, therefor, help them acquire coping techniques in challenging situations.

In conclusion, as mentioned above, a wide variety of methods are exploited globally to bring up superior children. Despite the prevalent tendency toward practicing authoritarianism, I believe letting children be more liberal is invaluable, as long as parents do not neglect their children because of being over-lenient.  
