## Lesson 10 - Sports

Welcome to the sports news! Without wasting any more time, let's hear about today’s game highlights with our reporter, Kalam!
“Hello everyone. As you saw, we were with the final stage of the biggest football tournament on Earth, World Cup! On one side was the Netherland who had never won the trophy, and on the other hand, was the world record holders in the number of championships, Brazil. Taking how many finals they have attended into account, it was more like a **home game** for them!
Alright, the game began, as the referee blew into his whistle. And as you saw, the Brazilian forward goals the ball with his head very soon, and Brazil **took the lead** expectedly and held it for almost 80 minutes. However, that was not the end of the story, and Netherland **made a comeback** at the 85th minute with a great strike and **tied the game** in the stoppage time. The game went through extra time, and players, with lots of **running races** over the ball, **set a new world record** in total distance covered in a final match. A couple of players of both sides had to **withdraw from the game** because they become injured in a martial-art-like soccer. Eventually, at the very last minute, Netherland performed another goal and took the lead, and after the referee blew the final whistle, they stood up on the first place among their opponents. After the game, it was heard that Brazil football federation requested a **drug test** of one of the players. We all know that if he **fails the test**, the rules mandate that the cup winner is the other team. Only when the results of the test of **illegal substances usage** become available, can we talk about the champion. “
Thank you for your attention, we are running out of time; so, stay tuned to find out more about the sports news. Good Night!
